Changes from 5.0
People complained to me that they couldn't use matdraw in conjunction
with plotyy, so I added in commands to change the display order of objects
as per a standard draw package.  Plotyy creates two axes, the front one
with fillcolor 'none' and the back one with fillcolor 'white'.  To reverse
them you'll want to select the front axes, change its fillcolor to 'white',
send it to back, and then select the new front axes and set its fillcolor
to 'none'.  Also made a change that fixes a problem introduced by 
MATLAB 5.2 which made it impossible to select axes labels.  Other than that,
there are just a few minor bug fixes.

Changes from 2.2a

There have been extensive changes under the hood for version 5, but
not so much has changed on the face of things.  The draw menu now
has separate menus for linestyles and markers with submenus for
marker edge color and marker face color.  All MatDraw's data is now
stored in the global MDDatObjs.  Interactive text modification is now
handled using MATLAB 5's 'editing' property.  Since multi-line text 
is now possible, you must click somewhere outside of the text area to
indicate that you are finished editing the text item.  Also, a menu 
for text alignment has been added.

The viewer has been reworked to match MATLAB 5's new camera paradigm.
You can now do EL and Az rotations and zoom in the camera.  Camera
zooms may behave strangely due to the quirks of MATLAB 5's way of doing things.
In addition, the viewer now displays the current figure and allows you to switch
between figures, as well as showing the current axes at the bottom right.
If you click and drag on the sample axes in the viewer they will rotate as per
MATLAB 5's rotate3d function, and the EL and Az fields will be updated to match.
There is a button which is intended to allow the user to modify the camera's 
target, but this feature has not yet been implemented.


Changes from version 2.2

The changes from 2.2 are mainly bug-fixes.  Arrow drawing and
dragging of objects now work normally even when one or more
axis is on a logarithmic scale.  The "Quit" menu item now quits
from MatDraw, not from Matlab.  The location of the Draw Tools
palette is now stored in the mdprefs.mat file.  It is now easier
to set default behaviors. Before you had to make sure no objects
were selected; now clicking on a tool other than the select tool
automatically deselects everything.  Various bugs with the
preferences dialog box were fixed.  

Changes from version 2.1

The changes from version 2.1 are mainly in response to various
user requests.

I've added a preferences dialog box.  This will let you set the
selection color, the number of points used to draw circles
(so you can get triangles, diamonds, etc.) and several other
aspects of the environment.  Some people complained that they
couldn't see the shade of gray that I was using to indicate
selection of an object.  Well, now you can set it to whatever
you like.

I've added the ability to manipulate axes to the Page Setup
dialog box.  No longer will you be limited to rectangular
grids of regularly sized axes.  This was also requested by
users.

Now when you choose the Print menu item from the Workspace
menu, MatDraw checks to see what you have defined as your 
'Print String' (defined in the preferences dialog box) and
prompts you for a file name if appropriate. Examples of 
acceptable print strings: '-dgif', '-Pmyprinter', '-deps -epsi'
Leading spaces in the print string will mess this function up, 
so be careful.

Finally, the most requested feature was the ability to save
the figures after you had modified them.  I had thought it would
be enough just to use print -dmfile, but it turns out that the
MATHWORKS function grabs menus as well.  The 'Save Figure' menu
item in the Workspace menu deletes all of MatDraw's menus before
saving the figure and then restores them.  


